zlib-ng - zlib for the next generation systems

Maintained by Hans Kristian Rosbach
          aka Dead2 (zlib-ng àt circlestorm dót org)


Fork Motivation and History
---------------------------

The motivation for this fork was due to seeing several 3rd party
contributions containing new optimizations not getting implemented
into the official zlib repository.

Mark Adler has been maintaining zlib for a very long time, and he has
done a great job and hopefully he will continue for a long time yet.
The idea of zlib-ng is not to replace zlib, but to co-exist as a
drop-in replacement with a lower threshold for code change.

zlib has a long history and is incredibly portable, even supporting
lots of systems that predate the Internet. This is great, but it does
complicate further development and maintainability.
The zlib code has to make numerous workarounds for old compilers that
do not understand ANSI-C or to accommodate systems with limitations
such as operating in a 16-bit environment.

Many of these workarounds are only maintenance burdens, some of them
are pretty huge code-wise. For example, the [v]s[n]printf workaround
code has a whopping 8 different implementations just to cater to
various old compilers. With this many workarounds cluttered throughout
the code, new programmers with an idea/interest for zlib will need
to take some time to figure out why all of these seemingly strange
things are used, and how to work within those confines.

So I decided to make a fork, merge all the Intel optimizations, merge
the Cloudflare optimizations that did not conflict, plus a couple
of other smaller patches. Then I started cleaning out workarounds,
various dead code, all contrib and example code as there is little
point in having those in this fork for different reasons.

Lastly I have been cleaning up the handling of different arches,
so that it will be easier to implement arch-specific code without
cluttering up the main code too much.

Now, there is still a lot to do and I am sure there are better ways
of doing several of the changes I have done. And I would be delighted
to receive patches, preferably as pull requests on github.
Just remember that any code you submit must be your own and it must
be zlib licensed. (Please read the full license below, it is really
very simple and very liberal.)


Acknowledgments
----------------

Big thanks to Driv Digital AS / raskesider.no for sponsoring my
maintainership of zlib-ng.

The deflate format used by zlib was defined by Phil Katz.
The deflate and zlib specifications were written by L. Peter Deutsch.

zlib was originally created by Jean-loup Gailly (compression)
and Mark Adler (decompression).


Copyright notice
----------------

(C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
   in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
   appreciated but is not required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
   misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly      Mark Adler
jloup@gzip.org        madler@alumni.caltech.edu

If you use the zlib library in a product, we would appreciate *not* receiving
lengthy legal documents to sign. The sources are provided for free but without
warranty of any kind. The library has been entirely written by Jean-loup
Gailly and Mark Adler; it does not include third-party code.

If you redistribute modified sources, we would appreciate that you include in
the file ChangeLog history information documenting your changes. Please read
the FAQ for more information on the distribution of modified source versions.
